>> Jem Young: So one way of
keeping your software secure, or
keeping your computer secure,
is preventing these zero days.
So the minute an exploit comes out,
you want to keep your software up to date.
And we can do this with a program
called Unattended Upgrades.
What it does is it automatically upgrades
your software for security or minor fixes.
So let's go ahead and
install that now on our computer.
So sudo.
apt install unattended-upgrades.
>> Jem Young: Do that
here.
And generally with modern
Ubuntu distributions,
it's already installed because
they're trying to help you out.
Every version of Ubuntu gets a little bit
better, a little bit more user friendly.
And let's just check on the conf file.
We're not gonna modify it today, but it's
good to know that these conf files exist.
So I'm gonna say less,
>> Jem Young: /etc/ apt, apt.conf.d, and
we'll go with 50 unattended upgrades.
>> Jem Young: For an
etc/APT/APT.conf.d/unattendedupgrades and
these are just configuration files for
the programs, for
apps and in this particular
instance it runs in the background.
So what it does is because most of
their everything's commented out,
other than the security.
And distribution for
the main distribution,
which usually doesn't happen.
There's not usually a major
push on LTS version.
And I don't know what ESM is,
but I think it's okay.
But the main one we want
is the security upgrades.
So every time there's a bug and
exploit discovered in Ubuntu,
your computer is automatically going
to pull in the latest changes for you.
This is really helpful.
When I first started out,
this didn't really exist.
So I had to run a cron job which is
a job that runs on a daily cycle or
whatever I established it to be and
automatically install these things but
with unintended upgrades,
it does it for you.
And that's, that's just a a really nice
feature that we should all enable if it's
not already enabled in your system.
Always make sure your system has
a way of staying up to date.
Windows Update, I think Windows 10,
they had a zero day release the other day,
it was from a video drive or
something like that.
So again, always keep your
software up to date if you can.
But don't necessarily jump on
the latest version of something.
But stay on the latest patches and fixes.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: So to clarify,
once you run this installer,
that's going to essentially be
an autopilot and it will automatically
delete auto installer or auto upgrader
>> Jem Young: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: And
what's the frequency of that schedule?
>> Jem Young: I don't know,
I think it checks probably daily.
It just checks the apt repo and
says is there an update to this?
If so, pull it in and install it.
>> Speaker 2: So theoretically you
would still be vulnerable to zero days.
>> Jem Young: Yes.
Which is why they're called a zero day.
If they were called a one day,
that would be enough to give
you enough time to fix it.
If it's a zero day and your system is
running, then it's not patched yet
because the manufacturer
doesn't even know about it.
Hence the zero part of it.